README.md, before:

# GPLOT
# Graphical Post-processed Locus for Output of Tropical cyclones

Git repository URL:  https://github.com/ghassan-alaka/GPLOT.git


# Instructions for installation

1. Add 'GPLOT_DIR' to environment
        Define GPLOT_DIR as the path where you cloned the GPLOT repository.
        This variable is critical to the functionality of GPLOT.
        Add it to your ~/.cshrc or ~/.bashrc file.


2. Install NCL (NCAR Command Language).
	Pre-compiled libraries are preferred. To learn more, start here:
		https://www.ncl.ucar.edu/Download/

	Version 6.5.0 has been well-tested for GPLOT:
		https://www.earthsystemgrid.org/dataset/ncl.650.html

	On NOAA Jet:
		*Load the module:	module load ncl/6.5.0

	On NOAA Hera:
		*Load the module:	module load ncl/6.5.0


3. Install MET (Model Evaluation Tools)
	To download the source code, go to the DTC web site:
		https://dtcenter.org/community-code/model-evaluation-tools-met/download

	Version 8.1 has been well-tested for GPLOT:
		https://dtcenter.org/sites/default/files/community-code/met/met-8.1.1.20190708.tar.gz

	On NOAA Jet:
		*Load the modules:	module load contrib
					module load intel/18.0.5.274
					module load met/8.1_beta2

	On NOAA Hera:
		*Load the modules:	module load intel/18.0.5.274
					module load anaconda/anaconda2-4.4.0
					module load met/8.1

4. Install Python 3 Anaconda
	To download the source code, go to the Python web site:
		https://www.python.org/downloads/

	Version 3.7.3 has been well-tested for GPLOT:
		https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-373/

	On NOAA RDHPCS systems (e.g., Jet, Hera), follow these instructions to build:
		https://rdhpcs-common-docs.rdhpcs.noaa.gov/wiki/index.php/Anaconda

	On NOAA Jet:
		*Add alias for python:	alias python="/lfs3/projects/hur-aoml/Andrew.Hazelton/anaconda3/bin/python"
		*Add python to path:	export PATH="/lfs3/projects/hur-aoml/Andrew.Hazelton/anaconda3/bin:${PATH}"
		Build the centroid module:
					cd python/modules
					python -m numpy.f2py -c ${GPLOT_DIR}/fortran/centroid.f90 -m centroid

	On NOAA Hera:
		*Add alias for python:	alias python="/scratch2/GFDL/nggps_aoml/Andrew.Hazelton/anaconda3/bin/python"
		*Add python to path:	export PATH=/scratch2/GFDL/nggps_aoml/Andrew.Hazelton/anaconda3/bin/:$PATH
		Build the centroid module:
					cd python/modules
					python -m numpy.f2py -c ${GPLOT_DIR}/fortran/centroid.f90 -m centroid


5. Link the correct module file (for NOAA systems only)
	Anything with an asterisk in Steps 2-4 should be taken care of automatically by loading
	the appropriate modulefile.

	On NOAA Jet:	cd modulefiles
			ln -sf GPLOT_mods.jet GPLOT_mods

	On NOAA Hera:	cd modulefiles
			ln -sf GPLOT_mods.hera GPLOT_mods
	



# Instructions to run

1. Set the namelist
	Create a master namelist --> namelist.master.${EXPT}
	It is most critical to decide which modules to run. Currently, 4 options:
		i.   Maps
		ii.  Stats
		iii. Ships
		iv.  Polar

2. If the experiment is new, add it to the table:
	${GPLOT_DIR}/tbl/ExptInfo.dat

3. If the model is new, add it to the table:
	${GPLOT_DIR}/tbl/ModelInfo.dat

4. Run the shell wrapper script
	./shell/GPLOT_wrapper.sh ${EXPT}
	By providing ${EXPT} as an argument, the GPLOT wrapper can find the correct master namelist
	and run with user-requested options.

Commit message:

The instructions have been updated to reflect the best way to run GPLOT.

README.md, after:

# GPLOT
# Graphical Post-processed Locus for Output of Tropical cyclones

Git repository URL:  https://github.com/ghassan-alaka/GPLOT.git


# Instructions for installation

1. Add 'GPLOT_DIR' to environment
        Define GPLOT_DIR as the path where you cloned the GPLOT repository.
        This variable is critical to the functionality of GPLOT.
        Add it to your ~/.cshrc and ~/.profile files.


2. Install NCL (NCAR Command Language).
	Pre-compiled libraries are preferred. To learn more, start here:
		https://www.ncl.ucar.edu/Download/

	Version 6.5.0 has been well-tested for GPLOT:
		https://www.earthsystemgrid.org/dataset/ncl.650.html

	On NOAA Jet:
		*Load the module:	module load ncl/6.5.0

	On NOAA Hera:
		*Load the module:	module load ncl/6.5.0

	.hluresfile:
		NCL configuration options are stored in .hluresfile. An example version
		of this file is stored in ncl/.hluresfile.example. Copy it to your
		home directory, for example $HOME/.hluresfile. You may add/change any
		value in .hluresfile, but only change 'wxMaximumSize' if you have
		good reason for doing so. 'wsMaximumSize' controls the memory
		available for NCL contour graphics.


3. Install MET (Model Evaluation Tools)
	To download the source code, go to the DTC web site:
		https://dtcenter.org/community-code/model-evaluation-tools-met/download

	Version 8.1 has been well-tested for GPLOT:
		https://dtcenter.org/sites/default/files/community-code/met/met-8.1.1.20190708.tar.gz

	On NOAA Jet:
		*Load the modules:	module load contrib
					module load intel/18.0.5.274
					module load met/8.1_beta2

	On NOAA Hera:
		*Load the modules:	module load intel/18.0.5.274
					module load anaconda/anaconda2-4.4.0
					module load met/8.1

4. Install Python 3 Anaconda
	To download the source code, go to the Python web site:
		https://www.python.org/downloads/

	Version 3.7.3 has been well-tested for GPLOT:
		https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-373/

	On NOAA RDHPCS systems (e.g., Jet, Hera), follow these instructions to build:
		https://rdhpcs-common-docs.rdhpcs.noaa.gov/wiki/index.php/Anaconda

	On NOAA Jet:
		*Add alias for python:	alias python="/lfs3/projects/hur-aoml/Andrew.Hazelton/anaconda3/bin/python"
		*Add python to path:	export PATH="/lfs3/projects/hur-aoml/Andrew.Hazelton/anaconda3/bin:${PATH}"
		Build the centroid module:
					cd python/modules
					python -m numpy.f2py -c ${GPLOT_DIR}/fortran/centroid.f90 -m centroid

	On NOAA Hera:
		*Add alias for python:	alias python="/scratch2/GFDL/nggps_aoml/Andrew.Hazelton/anaconda3/bin/python"
		*Add python to path:	export PATH=/scratch2/GFDL/nggps_aoml/Andrew.Hazelton/anaconda3/bin/:$PATH
		Build the centroid module:
					cd python/modules
					python -m numpy.f2py -c ${GPLOT_DIR}/fortran/centroid.f90 -m centroid


5. Link the correct module file (for NOAA systems only)
	Anything with an asterisk in Steps 2-4 should be taken care of automatically by loading
	the appropriate modulefile.

	On NOAA Jet:	cd modulefiles
			ln -sf GPLOT_mods.jet GPLOT_mods

	On NOAA Hera:	cd modulefiles
			ln -sf GPLOT_mods.hera GPLOT_mods

	If running via wrapper scripts and batch nodes, it is critical that GPLOT_mods point to the
	correct version.

	If running interactively in a tcsh or csh environment, you must specifically source the "tcsh"
	version of these files:
		source /PATH/TO/GPLOT/modulefiles/GPLOT_mods.jet.tcsh
	



# Instructions to run

1. Set the namelist
	Create a master namelist --> namelist.master.${EXPT}
	It is most critical to decide which modules to run. Currently, 4 options:
		i.   Maps
		ii.  Stats
		iii. Ships
		iv.  Polar

2. If the experiment is new, add it to the table:
	${GPLOT_DIR}/tbl/ExptInfo.dat

3. If the model is new, add it to the table:
	${GPLOT_DIR}/tbl/ModelInfo.dat

4. Run the shell wrapper script
	./shell/GPLOT_wrapper.sh ${EXPT}
	By providing ${EXPT} as an argument, the GPLOT wrapper can find the correct master namelist
	and run with user-requested options.
